This is a simple Rails application showcasing Reactrb, Opal, NPM, Webpack, React Bootstrap and other associated technologies.  This showcase is intended to be a companion project to the excellent Reactrb tutorials already written which you can find in [Further Reading](#further-reading) below.

+ [Introduction](#introduction)
+ [Setup](#setup)
+ [Working with React Bootstrap](#working-with-react-bootstrap)
+ Reactrb Router
+ Opal IRB
+ Reactrb Hotloader
+ Reactrb Reactive Record
+ [Further reading](#further-reading)

## Introduction

### Introductions to Reactrb
+ [An overview of Reactrb by Mitch VanDuyn](http://slides.com/mitchvanduyn/deck-1-3#/)
+ [Power of React-js with the joy of Ruby by Forrest Chang](http://www.slideshare.net/fkchang/reactrb-all-the-power-of-reactjs-with-all-the-joy-of-ruby)

### Reactrb Help and Questions

+ [Gitter.im](https://gitter.im/reactrb/chat) for general questions, discussion, and interactive help.
+ [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/reactrb) tag `reactrb` for specific problems.
+ [Github Issues](https://github.com/reactrb/reactrb/issues) for bugs, feature enhancements, etc.

### Using NPM and Webpack alongside Rails

Ruby libraries are distributed as gems, and are managed in your Rails app using the Gemfile and bundler.

In the Javascript world things are still evolving but I have found that the easiest way to manage Javascript libraries is using NPM (Node Package Manager) and Webpack.  Pretty much every front end library is packaged with NPM these days so it is easy to get help and most things just work.  

Happily NPM, Webpack, Rails, and Reactrb can all play together very nicely.

This tutorial requires that Ruby, Rails, and NPM  are installed. Please see their websites for installation instructions.

+ [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/)
+ [Rails](http://rubyonrails.org/)

### Technologies highlighted in this showcase app

+ For the backend we are using Rails 4.2.6 with Ruby 2.3.1
+ NPM and Webpack to manage front end assets
+ [React Rails](https://github.com/reactjs/react-rails) to use React with Rails
+ [Reactrb](https://github.com/reactrb/reactrb) to write reactive UI components with Ruby's elegance
+ [React Bootstrap](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/) to show how to use native React components in Reactrb

## Setup

### Step 1: Creating a new Rails application

	rails new reactrb-showcase
	cd reactrb-showcase
	bundle install

You should have a empty Rails application

	bundle exec rails s

And in your browser

	http://localhost:3000/

You should be seeing the Rails Welcome aboard page. Great, Rails is now installed. Lets get started with the interesting stuff.

### Step 2: Adding Reactrb

[We will use the Reactrb Rails Generator Gem](https://github.com/loicboutet/reactive-rails-generator)

In your `Gemfile` under the development group add

	gem "reactrb-rails-generator"

then do

	bundle install
	bundle exec rails g reactrb:install --all
	bundle update

At this stage Reactrb is installed but we don't have any components yet. Lets create one via the generator:

	rails g reactrb:component Home::Show

This will add a new Component at app/views/components/home/show.rb

Have a look at this component as the generator creates a boiler plate component and instructions for using the most common Reactrb macros. Note that Reactrb components normally inherit from class `React::Component::Base` but you are free to `include React::Component` instead if you need your component to inherit from some other class. 

Also note how `params` are declared and how `before_mount` macros (and friends) macros are used. Finally note that every component must have one `render` method which must return just one DOM `element` which in this example case is a `div`.

Next let's get this simple component rendering on a page. For that we will need a rails controller and a route.

	rails g controller home

And add a route to your `routes.rb`

	root => 'home#show'

And a `show` method in the HomeController which will render the component using the `render_component` helper.

	class HomeController < ApplicationController
	  def show
	    render_component
	  end
	end

Fire up the server with `bundle exec rails s`, refresh your browser and if all has gone well, you should be rewarded with `Home::Show` in your browser. 
	
### Step 3: Setup Webpack for managing javascript libraries

There are three parts to this step:  

* Setting up NPM (node package manager) for the project
* Setting up Webpack
* Updating the rails asset pipeline to use the bundles generated by Webpack

This is just a matter of adding 4 boiler plate files, and updating two of your rails files.

First add a package.json file to your root directory (same place as your Gemfile) like this:

    // package.json
    {
      "name": "reactrb-showcase",
      "version": "0.0.1",
      "dependencies": {
        "bootstrap": "^3.3.6",
        "react": "^0.14.2",      
        "react-dom": "^0.14.2", 
        "react-bootstrap": "^0.29.5",
        "webpack": "^1.13.1",
      },
      "devDependencies": {
      }
    }

Notice how similar this is to your Gemfile.

Now run `npm install` which will make sure you have all these packages.

So that we can run webpack from the command line do a `npm install webpack -g`

Now that we have webpack, we need to add 3 boiler plate files to configure it.  As you add more javascript packages you will be updating these files.  Again this is similar to updating your Gemfile when you add new gems to a project.

Add webpack.config.js to the root of your project:

```javascript
var path = require("path");

module.exports = {
    context: __dirname,
    entry: {
        client_only:  "./webpack/client_only.js",
        client_and_server: "./webpack/client_and_server.js"
    },
    externals: {
        "react": "React",
        "react-dom": "ReactDOM"
    },
    output: {
        path: path.join(__dirname, 'app', 'assets', 'javascripts', 'webpack'),
        filename: "[name].js",
        publicPath: "/js/"
    },
    module: {
        loaders: [
          // add any loaders here
        ]
    },
    resolve: {
      root: path.join(__dirname, '..', 'webpack')
    },
};
```

and create a folder called `webpack` and add the following two files:

```javascript
// webpack/client_only.js
// any packages that depend specifically on the DOM go here
// for example the webpack css loader generates code that will break prerendering
console.log('client_and_server.js loaded');
```

```javascript
// webpack/client_and_server.js
// all other packages that you can run on both server (prerendering) and client go here
// most well behaved packages can be required here
ReactDOM = require('react-dom')
React = require('react')
console.log('client_only.js loaded')
```

Now run `webpack` from the command line.  This will grab all necessary dependencies and package them up into the `client_and_server.js` and `client_only.js` bundles.  If you look in the `app/assets/javascripts/webpack` directory you should see the two files there.

Finally we need to require these two bundles into our rails asset pipeline.

Edit `app/assets/javascript/application.js` and add 
```javascript
//= require 'webpack/client_only'
```
just *above* the line that reads `Opal.load('components');`.  This will pull in any webpack assets that can only run on the client.

Then edit `app/views/components.rb` and replace the `require 'react'` line with 
```ruby
require 'webpack/client_and_server.js'
```
In otherwords instead of pulling in react from the react-rails gem, we are going to pull in react *and* any other javascript packages we want from our webpack bundle.  

Now run `bundle exec rails s` and refresh the browser.  Look at the console and you should see something like this: 
```text
client_and_server.js loaded
client_only.js loaded
client_and_server.js loaded
************************ React Prerendering Context Initialized Show ***********************
************************ React Browser Context Initialized ****************************
Reactive record prerendered data being loaded: [Object]
```

Congratulations you are setup and ready to begin adding javascript packages to your application.

## Working with React Bootstrap

[We will be using React Bootstrap which is a native React library](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/)

The main purpose for React Bootstrap is that it abstracts away verbose HTML & CSS code into React components which makes it a lot cleaner for React JSX developers. One of the very lovely things about Reactrb is that we already work in beautiful Ruby. To emphasise this point, consider the following:

Sample 1 - In HTML (without React Bootstrap):

	<button id="something-btn" type="button" class="btn btn-success btn-sm">
	  Something
	</button>
	$('#something-btn').click(someCallback);

Sample 2 - In JSX (with React Bootstrap components):

	<Button bsStyle="success" bsSize="small" onClick={someCallback}>
	  Something
	</Button>

Sample 3 - In Reactrb (without React Bootstrap):

	button.btn_success.btn_sm {'Something'}.on(:click) do
		someMethod
	end

Sample 4 - In Reactrb (with React Bootstrap):

	Bs.Button(bsStyle: 'success' bsSize: "small").on(:click) do
		someMethod
	end

As you can see, sample 3 & 4 are not that different and as a Reactrb developer, I actually prefer sample 3. If I were a JavaScript or JSX developer I would completely understand the advantage of abstracting Bootstrap CSS into React Components so I don't have to work directly with CSS and JavaScript but this is not the case with Reactrb as CSS classes are added to HTML elements with simple dot notation:

	span.pull_right {}

compiles to (note the conversion from _ to -)

	<span class='pull-right'></span>

So I hear you ask: why if I prefer the non-React Bootstrap syntax why am worrying about React Bootstrap? For one very simple reason: Bootstrap JavaScript based components will not preform as they do with React as without React. Anything that requires `bootstrap.js` will not play nicely with with React and without the React Bootstrap project you would need to implement all that functionality yourself. A good example of this are Bootstrap Navbars which are a combination of CSS and JavaScript, all of which has been re-implemented with React by the React Bootstrap contributors.

Lets implement a Navbar in this project using React Bootstrap in Reactrb. First, we need to install Bootstrap and React Bootstrap:

	npm install bootstrap react-bootstrap --save
	
Note: The `--save` option will update the package.json file.

And then we need to `require` it in `webpack/client_and_server.js` by adding this line:
```javascript
ReactBootstrap = require('react-bootstrap')
```
Run the `webpack` command again, and restart your rails server.

If you refresh your browser now and open the JavaScript console we will be able to interact with React Bootstrap by typing:

	ReactBootstrap

and you will see the ReactBootstrap object with all its components like Accordion, Alert, Badge, Breadcrumb, etc. This is great news, React Bootstrap is installed and ready to use. Accessing the JavaScript object in this way is a really great way to see what you have to work with. Sometimes the documentation of a component is not as accurate as actually seeing what you have in the component itself.

Reactrb can automatically access our components loaded by Webpack, but we have to opt in to this behavior.  Edit `app/views/components.rb` and add 
```ruby
require 'reactrb/auto-import'
```
immediately after `require 'reactrb'` (which is right near the top of the file.)  Auto-import will now search the javascript name space, and import into ruby any components that are referenced by your Reactrb components.

To make sure everything is working lets add a *Button* to our our Show component like this:
```ruby
module Components
  module Home
    class Show < React::Component::Base
      def render
        ReactBootstrap::Button(bsStyle: 'success', bsSize: "small") do
          'Success'
        end.on(:click) do
    	  alert('you clicked me!')
    	end
      end
    end
  end
end
```
Notice that we reference `ReactBoostrap` in ruby using the same identifer that was in the require statement in our `client_and_server.js` webpack bundle.  The first time Reactrb hits the `ReactBootstrap` constant it will not be defined. This triggers a search of the javascript name space for something that looks either like a component or library of components.  It then defines the appropriate module or component class wrapper in ruby.

Visit your page and if all is well you will see a clickable button.  However it will not have any styles.  This is because ReactBootstrap does not automatically depend on any particular style sheet, so we will have to supply one.  An easy way to do this is to just copy the css file from the bootstrap repo, and stuff it our rails assets directory, however with a little upfront work we can setup webpack to do it all for us.

First lets add four webpack *loaders* using npm:
```text
    npm install css-loader file-loader style-loader url-loader --save-dev
```
Notice we use `--save-dev` instead of just `--save` as these packages are only used in the development process. 

Now edit your `webpack.config.js` file, and update the loaders section so it looks like this:
```javascript
var path = require("path");

module.exports = {
...
    module: {
        loaders: [
            { test: /\.css$/, loader: "style-loader!css-loader" },
            { test: /\.(woff|woff2)(\?v=\d+\.\d+\.\d+)?$/, loader: 'url?limit=10000&mimetype=application/font-woff' },
            { test: /\.ttf(\?v=\d+\.\d+\.\d+)?$/, loader: 'url?limit=10000&mimetype=application/octet-stream' },
            { test: /\.eot(\?v=\d+\.\d+\.\d+)?$/, loader: 'file' },
            { test: /\.svg(\?v=\d+\.\d+\.\d+)?$/, loader: 'url?limit=10000&mimetype=image/svg+xml' }
        ]
    },
...
};
```

We have set webpack up so that when a css file is required it uses the style loader to process the file.  Because the bootstrap css file will require font face files, we also have 4 font loaders.  All this will package up everything when we require any css file.

Now we are ready to require CSS files, and have webpack build a complete bundle including the css and any fonts referenced.

To bundle in the bootstrap css file add this line to `webpack/client_only.js`
```javascript
require('bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css');
```

And install the bootstrap package 
```
npm install bootstrap --save
```

Now run `webpack` to update our bundles, and restart your server.  Now our button is properly styled. 

Now that everything is loaded, lets update our component to use a few more of the Bootstrap components.  Update our Show component so that it looks like this:

```ruby
module Components
  module Home
    class Show < React::Component::Base

      def say_hello(i)
        alert "Hello from number #{i}"
      end

      def render 
        ReactBootstrap::Navbar(bsStyle: :inverse) do
          ReactBootstrap::Nav() do
            ReactBootstrap::NavbarBrand() do
              a(href: '#') { 'Reactrb Showcase' }
            end
            ReactBootstrap::NavDropdown(eventKey: 1, title: 'Things', id: :drop_down) do
              (1..5).each do |n|
                ReactBootstrap::MenuItem(href: '#', key: n, eventKey: "1.#{n}") do
                  "Number #{n}"
                end.on(:click) { say_hello(n) }
              end
            end
          end
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```


A few things to notice in the code above:

We add React Bootstrap components simply by `ReactBootstrap::Name` where `Name` is the component you want to render. All the components are documented in the React Bootstrap [documentation](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/components.html)

Notice how I have added an `.on(:click)` event handler to the `MenuItem` component while setting `href: '#'` as this will allow us to handle the event instead of navigating to a new page.

Hopefully you have realized that almost all of this tutorial is just setting up webpack boiler plate.  Once things are setup using a new js package in Reactrb is as easy as doing an `npm install` and requiring it.  


TODO:

+ Reactrb Router
+ Opal IRB
+ Reactrb Hotloader
+ Reactrb Reactive Record

## Further reading

### Other Reactrb tutorials and examples
+ [Getting started with Reactrb and Rails](https://github.com/loicboutet/reactrb_tutorial)
+ [ChatRB Demo App](https://github.com/reactrb/reactrb.github.io/blob/master/docs/tutorial.md)
+ [Reactive Record sample ToDo app](https://github.com/loicboutet/reactivetodo)
+ [Flux pattern in Reactrb](https://github.com/reactrb/reactrb.github.io/wiki/Sending-data-from-deeply-nested-components)
+ [Getting with Reactrb, React Bootstrap and Webpack](https://github.com/fkchang/getting-started-reactrb-webpack)

### Other Reactrb resources
+ [Reactrb website](http://reactrb.org/)
+ [Reactrb GitHub site](https://github.com/reactrb/reactrb)

### Reactrb is powered by React

Reactrb and friends are in most cases simple DSL Ruby wrappers to the underlying native JavaScript libraries and React Components. It is really important to have a solid grip on how these technologies work to compliment your understanding of Reactrb. Most searches for help on Google will take you to examples written in JSX or ES6 JavaScript but you will learn over time to transalte this to Reactrb equivalents. To make headway with Reactrb you do need a solid understanding of the underlying philosophy of React and its component based architecture. The 'Thinking in React' tutorial below is an excellent place to start. (Make sure you see the Flux pattern in Reactrb above for an example of how to communicate between grandparent and child components).   

+ [Thinking in React](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/thinking-in-react.html)
+ [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/getting-started.html)
+ [React Router](https://github.com/reactjs/react-router)
+ [React Bootstrap](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/)

### Opal under the covers

Reactrb is a DSL wrapper of React which uses Opal to compile Ruby code to ES5 native JavaScript. If you have not used Opal before then you should at a minimum read the excellent guides as they will teach you enough to get you started with Reactrb.

+ [Opal](http://opalrb.org/)
+ [Opal Guides](http://opalrb.org/docs/guides/v0.9.2/index.html)
+ [To see the full power of Opal in action watch this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vhIrrlcWphU)
