In this article today am going to help you get started with android application development using Android Studio. A very basic article to get you started.

Below are the basic requirements you should have as a pre setup,

### Prerequisites 

1.  Java Development Kit(JDK) 8.

2.  2 GB RAM minimum, 8 GB RAM recommended.

3.  Latest Android Studio
   (get it from https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html)


### Let's Look at the basic Android App.

######  Install the Android Studio(Keep track of the location where the system puts the android files)

2.  Go to File -> New Project
3.  Choose the Empty Activity from the available list of Activities displayed in the window.
4.  Give it a name and the corresponding .xml file will be generated automatically under(res/Layout/) folder
5.  When the Project Loads you will be presented with the activity_main.xml(the default page when the project is created)
6.  The activity_main.xml is the designer page for you android application,to the left of designer window you will be presented with the tool box from which you can drag and drop the controls(like button,textBox etc.,)
7.  At the bottom of the designer window you will find two navigators( Design and Text).
8.  Design - Enables you to add the controls by drag and drop from Tool box 
    
    Text   - Contains the corresponding code that is generated by dragging the controls/elements to the designed and also enables you to add the controls by writing the elements as xml
            
        Eg. <Button ... //(contains the attributes like name,id,text)
                    </Button>


######  By now you should have a  designer with Sample Text "Hello World" displayed in the designer.

To run and see how the app works 

1.  Go to Run Menu option or the play button in the top Menu bar and Click Run
2.  Create a new Emulator in the window that is presented(Choose from the various Form-factors and Android version) and then click OK to proceed.
3.  Wait for the application to build. Once the build process is complete you will have the Emulator running the application with "Hello World".


This tutorial is for the beginners who haven't had any experience in writing android applications.

I hope this will help you get started with android.Let's look at some other samples in next guides to follow.In the next guide we will focus on various components of the Application.

Write to me in case if you need further help.

